---
layout: post
title: Robocon
date: 2020-05-23 00:00:00 +0300
description: Experience and Learnings from Robocon-19 and Robocon-20 # Add post description (optional)
img:  # Add image post (optional)
fig-caption: # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: # add tag
---
Robocon (short for Robotic Contest) is organised by Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union (ABU), a collection of over 20 countries of Asia Pacific Region. NHK, Japan had already been organising such contests at national level and also became the host of the first ABU Robocon in 2002.

### ROBOCON 2019
The mission of the ABU Robocon 2019 Ulaanbaatar is to deliver information fast by using a relay messenger system - the Urtuu, 
which was first innovated in the world by the nomadic Mongolians. A match is between Red and Blue teams. 
Each team has one manual robot known as Messenger-Robot 1, and one automatic robot known as Messenger-Robot 2.

___ pic MR1, MR2 ___

We were a team of 17 from different domains of engineering and secured a National Rank of 13th. 
During the project I was a junior member and worked on the Quadruped robot, learning following –

*Embedded systems, giving me the knowledge for several ‘commonly’ used sensors and IC’s. 
*Algorithm development of a non-conventional quadraped robot, and implemented it in matlab Simulink. 
*Implemented various Protection circuits for the robots. 

___ pic for mix modules____

The robots were built on Arduino based Microcontrollers. Polulu IMU 9-v5 was used to determine the yaw for the quadruped robot. Rotary Encoders were used to obtain angular and velocity feedback from motors. 
The Quadruped Robot was an autonomous robot, and it involved a Raspberry Pi to perform Computer Vision application, and send the detected markers to Arduino Board.
The quadruped designed by the Mechanical team was an unconventional Quadruped Robot. It comprised of 2 motors, to perform both actions of walking and rotation. 
The stable orientations while performing motion was identified, and this was controlled with help of implementing a PID controller on the motors. 

___ matlab pic ____

To check the Validity of the algorithm, it was tested and developed first in Matlab Simulink and later is was implemented on the Quadruped robot.   

Later Over Voltage and Short Circuit protection circuits were implemented and were used on the robots. 
